# AV-BREAKDOWN---A-PROCESS-NEVER-TO-SKIP
Many companies these days opt for videos as they have become an essential tool for marketing. They want to engage their target audiences with great visuals that tell the story of their brand with exceptional audio.  To make a good film for a brand, writing just the script isn’t enough. One must be able to convey the kind of visuals that will accompany the dialogue or the voiceover. Obviously, the viewers view both the streams simultaneously, but making a detailed distinction between what we hear and what we see, makes it easier for the makers to plan out the shots.  That’s where the audio visual breakdown comes in!  The idea is simple. The script writer divides the page into two columns, Audio and Visual and they write the visuals that accompany the audio that they think would look good.  This format isn’t necessary, but advisable. It helps the scriptwriter to convey their thoughts on the visuals, pace, and tone to the Director. This format of writing is important in scriptwriting more than any other forms of writing, because it breaks down the script into two halves, making it easier for everyone to be on the same page, quite literally!  Keeping in mind that videos are primarily a visual medium, and it is a great format to tell stories, it is important to convey as much information about the visuals as possible to the client and the team to avoid any miscommunication.  Once the script is green-lit, the scriptwriter wants to make sure that everyone says yes to the same script. Everyone from the client to the director should be visualizing the script as it is originally intended. It all comes down to the fact that if you are not specific, it will be extremely easy for the entire crew to go off-course.  AV Breakdowns are a quick cheat sheet to making a film. It is the stage in the pre-production where the film comes together for everyone. Now that the pre-production is solid, the team can concentrate on translating this breakdown to screen.  This pre-production stage of work is absolutely worth spending time on and getting a buy-in from internal and external stakeholders of the video. To know more: https://www.orangevideos.in/av-breakdown-a-process-never-to-skip
